# Project: Data Warehouse

## Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Project Description

In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

## Datasource

### Song Dataset

- The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset.
- Download here: http://millionsongdataset.com/

### Log Dataset

- The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator(https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.
- The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.

## Install Requirements
Tested on python 3.8

`python -m pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Structure

The project includes files:

`create_table.py` is where you'll create your fact and dimension tables for the star schema in Redshift.

`etl.py` is where you'll load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.

`sql_queries.py` is where you'll define you SQL statements, which will be imported into the two other files above.

`README.md` is where you'll provide discussion on your process and decisions for this ETL pipeline.

`cryto.py` is simple script you can you to enscrypt/decrypt message. (can be use to encypt your db host, db name, db username, db password)

## How to run
- AWS Redshift DWH Resource, IAM roles resource MUST be created beforehand.
- Input the `dwh.cfg` file with the Redshift Datawarehouse infos and your created IAM-role ARN.
- Install the python requirements.py (check above 'Install Requirements' section).
- Run the file create_tables.py `python create_tables.py` to create required tables.
- Run the ETL file etl.py `python etl.py` to copy file from S3 to staging tables, then insert data into final tables.

